docs: add examples for splice site variants (#679)
ga4gh/vrs: docs/source/examples/SpliceVariants/SpliceAcceptorUpstream.rst

HGVS expression
---------------

We will use the following HGVS expression from ClinVar: `NM_005188.4(CBL):c.1096-1G>C <https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/clinvar/variation/45196/>`_.

This expression specifies a single-nucleotide variant one base upstream of the coding exon boundary, placing the variant in the intron adjacent to a splice acceptor site.

Transcript context
------------------

`NCBI Reference Sequence: NM_005188.4 <https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/nuccore/NM_005188>`_

* Positive strand
* Splice acceptor (intron → exon boundary)
* Upstream intronic (intron side of the exon boundary)

Transcript features at the splice junction
------------------------------------------

The exon boundaries below provide the local transcript context used to interpret the splice-adjacent HGVS position in this example.

.. code-block::

  CDS            80..2800
  exon 7         1087..1174
                      /gene="CBL"
  exon 8        1175..1306
                      /gene="CBL"

NCBI graphical sequence view
----------------------------

> The figure below shows the same region in the NCBI Sequence Viewer, which displays transcript structure and exon boundaries aligned to the reference sequence.

Reviewer: Just curious, can we link to the NCBI viewer somewhere in this text?

Recognizing that it might not be supported, but just double-checking if there is an opportunity to allow people to see the live content view associated with the example image.

Author: Sure, I made it so that if people click on the image it would take them to the link, but I can also create a hyperlink in the text.

  NCBI Sequence Viewer showing the splice acceptor region in NM_005188.4.

Anchor selection
----------------

To represent this variant, an anchor is chosen at the inter-residue position corresponding to the exon boundary referenced by the HGVS expression. For splice-acceptor variants, this anchor is placed at the start of the exon following the intron.

Anchor selection is determined by splice context and does not depend on transcript orientation. In this example, the exon start occurs at inter-residue position **1174**, which is used as the anchor.

The diagram below illustrates the selected anchor position relative to the exon boundary.

> .. image:: ../../images/splice_variants/acceptor_upstream/anchor.drawio.svg

Reviewer: I updated the text slightly at the source lucid chart for clarity about interresidue / residue relationship. The preposition "on" was a little overloaded and made it confusing on a fresh read. We should update the images for the anchor sections to match the revised text.

  :alt: Calculating interbase coordinates for anchor
  :align: center

Mapping relative to the anchor
------------------------------

Offsets are applied relative to the anchor to identify the transcript-relative inter-residue interval corresponding to the HGVS position.

> Because the anchor corresponds to an exon junction, ``anchorOrientation`` is used to select which side of the anchor is used as the reference point. For this splice-acceptor variant, the anchor is oriented to the **right**, selecting the side of the anchor immediately following the exon boundary.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Because the anchor represents the point at which an alignment gap occurs (e.g. an exon junction mapped to two sides of an intronic sequence), ``anchorOrientation`` is used to select which side of the anchor is used as the reference point. For this splice-acceptor variant, the anchor is oriented to the **right**, selecting the side of the anchor immediately following the intron-exon boundary.
```
